NC | Upstream Docs Refactoring (#8162)
noobaa/noobaa-core: docs/NooBaaNonContainerized/Health.md

# NooBaa Non Containerized - Health CLI

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
2. [Installation](#installation)
3. [General Information](#general-information)
5. [Usage](#usage)
6. [Output](#output)
7. [Example](#example)
8. [Health Errors](#health-errors)
    1. [General Errors](#general-errors)
    2. [Accounts / Buckets Health Errors](#accounts--buckets-health-errors)

## Introduction
The Health CLI tool is a powerful command-line interface designed to efficiently analyze the NooBaa service, endpoints, accounts and buckets health.

## Installation
Health CLI installed automatically during the NooBaa RPM installation.
For more details about NooBaa RPM installation, see - [Getting Started](./GettingStarted.md).

## General Information 
* NooBaa Health CLI will analyze the following aspects - 

>   - `NooBaa Service health`

Reviewer: The style here is different than the rest (either change this or the rest):
```suggestion
  - `NooBaa service health`
```

    - Verifying that the NooBaa service is active and has a valid PID (not equal to 0).
  - `NooBaa endpoints health`

>     - Ensuring that the NooBaa endpoint is operational (running).

Reviewer: We can keep it simple:
```suggestion
    - Ensuring that the NooBaa endpoint is running.
```

>   - `NooBaa Accounts Health`

Reviewer: The style here is different than the rest (either change this or the rest):
```suggestion
  - `NooBaa accounts health`
```

    - Iterating accounts under the config directory.
    - Confirming the existence of the account's configuration file and its validity as a JSON file.

>     - Verifying that the account's new_buckets_path is defined and allow_bucket_creation is set to true.

Reviewer: I think it is easier to read with code inline:
```suggestion
    - Verifying that the account's `new_buckets_path` is defined and `allow_bucket_creation` is set to true.
```

Question: What if the user sets the new_buckets_path and explicitly set allow_bucket_creation to false?

>     - Ensuring that the account has read and write access to its new_buckets_path.

Reviewer: It there an implementation difference between "Verifying..." and "Ensuring...", what happens when it doesn't happen?

  - `NooBaa buckets health` 
    - Iterating buckets under the config directory.
    - Confirming the existence of the bucket's configuration file and its validity as a JSON file.
    - Verifying that the underlying storage path of a bucket exists.

* Health CLI requires root permissions.

* Add `2>/dev/null` to the NooBaa CLI commands for omitting stderr logs printed by NooBaa.

## Usage
The `health` command is used to analyze NooBaa health with customizable options.

```sh
sudo node /usr/local/noobaa-core/src/cmd/health [--deployment_type][--https_port]
[--all_account_details][--all_bucket_details][--config_root][--debug]
```
### Flags -

- `deployment_type`
    - <u>Type</u>: String
    - <u>Default</u>: 'nc'
    - <u>Description</u>: Indicates the deployment type.

- `https_port`
    - Type: Number
    - Default: 6443

>     - Description: Indicates the name of the new account.

Reviewer: Wrong description (copied form the next property).

- `all_account_details`
    - Type: Boolean
    - Default: false

>     - Description: Indicates the name of the new account.

Reviewer: The description is  not clear

- `all_bucket_details`
    - Type: Boolean
    - Default: false

>     - Description: Indicates the name of the new account.

Reviewer: Wrong description (copied form the previous property).

- `config_root`
    - Type: String
    - Description: Indicates the config directory (default config.NSFS_NC_DEFAULT_CONF_DIR). config_root flag should be used only for dev/tests envs.

> - `debug`

Reviewer: What about default and valid values?

    

- `error_message`
    - Type: String
    - Enum: See - [Health Errors](#health-errors)
    - Description: Error message describing a health issue uncovered by the Health CLI. Will be displayed in Health response if status is NOTOK.

- `service_status`
    - Type: String
    - Enum: "active" | "inactive" | "missing service status info"
    - Description: NooBaa service status. Determined by whether the service is up and running.

- `pid`
    - Type: Number | "missing pid info"
    - Description: NooBaa service process ID or Error message.

- `endpoint_state`
    - Type: { response: { response_code: "Running" | "NOT_RUNNING", response_message: String } }
    - Description: NooBaa endpoint response.
  
- `total_fork_count`:
    - Type: Number
    - Description: Total number of expected forks in NooBaa.

- `running_workers`
    - Type: Array
    - Description: Running NooBaa endpoint workers IDs.

- `invalid_buckets`: 
  - Type: [{"name": "bucket_name", "config_path": "/bucket/config/path" OR "storage_path": "/bucket/storage/path", "code": String }]

>   - Description: Array of invalid buckets, invalid buckets missing valid storage path or having invalid config JSON file.

Reviewer: Easier to read with number, like in the accounts:
```suggestion
  - Description: Array of invalid buckets, invalid bucket is a bucket that -
    1. The bucket's missing a valid storage path
    2. The bucket has an invalid config JSON file.
```

- `invalid_accounts`: 
  - Type: [{ "name": "account_name", "config_path": "/account/config/path" OR "storage_path": "/path/to/accounts/new_buckets_path","code": String }] 
  - Description: Array of invalid accounts, invalid account is account that - 
    1. The account's new_buckets_path doesn't exist

>     2. The account doesn't have RW access to its new_buckets_path or having invalid config JSON file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. The account doesn't have RW access to its `new_buckets_path`
    2. The account has an invalid config JSON file.
```

- `valid_accounts`
  - Type: [{ "name": account_name, "storage_path": "/path/to/accounts/new_buckets_path" }]
  - Description: Array of all the valid accounts. If the all_account_details flag is set to true, valid_accounts will be included in the Health response.

- `valid_buckets`
  - Type: [{ "name": bucket_name, "storage_path": "/path/to/bucket/path" }]
  - Description: Array of all the valid buckets. If the all_bucket_details flag is set to true, valid_buckets will be included in the Health response.

- `error_type`
  - Type: String
  - Enum: 'PERSISTENT' | 'TEMPORARY'
  - Description: For TEMPORARY error types, NooBaa attempts multiple retries before updating the status to reflect an error. Currently, TEMPORARY error types are only observed in checks for invalid NooBaa endpoints.
 

## Example 
```sh

> sudo node usr/local/noobaa-core/src/cmd/health --all_account_details --all_bucket_details

Reviewer: Can you add a refer to a dev guide to run it on a local machine?

```

> Output:

Reviewer: On my output, I saw for example:
```json
"buckets_status":
{
    "invalid_buckets":[],
     "valid_buckets":[
          {"name":"bucket-1001-05","storage_path":"/tmp/nsfs_root1/my-bucket"}
     ],
    "error_type":"PERSISTENT"
}
```
Why do I see the error type near the buckets?

      ```

#### 2. Missing Forks
  - Error code: `NOOBAA_ENDPOINT_FORK_MISSING`
  - Error message: One or more endpoint fork is not started properly. Verify the total and missing fork count in response.
  - Reasons:
    - One or more endpoint fork is not started properly.
    - Number of workers running is less than the configured `forks` value.
  - Resolutions:
    - Restart the NooBaa service and also verify NooBaa fork/s is exited with an error within the logs.
      ```
      systemctl status rsyslog.service
      journalctl -xeu rsyslog.service
      ```

#### 3. NooBaa Endpoint Is Not Running
  - Error code: `NOOBAA_ENDPOINT_FAILED`
  - Error message: S3 endpoint process is not running. Restart the endpoint process.
  - Reasons:
    - NooBaa endpoint process is not running, and it's not able to respond to any requests.
  - Resolutions:
    - Restart the NooBaa service and verify NooBaa process is exited with errors within the logs.
      ```
      systemctl status rsyslog
      journalctl -xeu rsyslog.service
      ```

#### 5. Unknown Error
  - Error code: `UNKNOWN_ERROR`
  - Error message: An unknown error occurred.
  - Reasons:
    - Unknown.
  - Resolutions:

>     - Unknown.

Reviewer: We better advise on what to do in such a case or refer to the troubleshooting part.

The following error codes will be associated with a specific Bucket or Account schema under the invalid_buckets or invalid_accounts property.

#### 1. Storage path does not exist
- Error code: `STORAGE_NOT_EXIST`
- Error message: Storage path mentioned in schema pointing to the invalid directory.
- Reasons:
  - Account's new_buckets_path pointing to a non-existing file.
  - Bucket's path pointing to a non-existing file.
- Resolutions:
  - Ensure that the account's new_buckets_path is an existing file.
  - Ensure that the bucket's path is an existing file.

#### 2. Invalid Account/Bucket Configuration File
  - Error code: `INVALID_CONFIG`
  - Error message: Schema JSON is not valid, Please check the JSON format.
  - Reasons:
    - Bucket/Account JSON is not valid or not in JSON format.
  - Resolutions:
    - Check for any JSON syntax error in the schema structure of the Bucket/Account.

#### 3. Account Can Not Access New_Buckets_Path
  - Error code: `INVALID_CONFIG`
  - Error message: Account do no have access to storage path mentioned in schema.
  - Reasons:
    - Account `new_buckets_path` is not accessible with account uid and gid.
  - Resolutions:

>     - Ensure that the account's UID/GID/user has sufficient read and write permissions within the new_buckets_path file system directory.

Reviewer: why need the `sufficient`?
```suggestion
    - Ensure that the account's UID/GID/user has read and write permissions within the `new_buckets_path` file system directory.
```

> #### 4. Account Config File Is Missing

Reviewer: In the details below, you mention bucket and account. 
```suggestion
#### 4. Bucket/Account Config File Is Missing
```

  - Error code: `MISSING_CONFIG`
  - Error message: Schema JSON is not found.
  - Reasons:
    - The Bucket/Account configuration file is missing from the config directory.
  - Resolutions:
    - Check for config files in respective Accounts or Buckets directories.

> #### 5. Account's user (FS Distinguished Name) is invalid

Reviewer: To match the style of the file
```suggestion
#### 5. Account's user (FS Distinguished Name) is Invalid
```
